the team behind cardashift believes that africa in particular could experience Defi and digital technologies 
as a development booster. Cardano is striving towards carbon neutrality, Cardashift have explained that they 
believe it's important for cryptocurrencies to remove the image of being polluters.In particular when you 
are working with sustainability. the team point towards Bitcoins annual emmissions being equal to that of 
the carbon footprint of Nigeria. The Oroboros protocol from cardano solves this issue with electricity consumption.
The cardashift team point out that a single bitcoin transaction uses as much electricity as 2 refrigerators do 
an entire year while a single cardano transaction uses as much electricity as a laptop charging for five hours.
There are third reaseons to choosing cardano as their blockchain is due to its deterministic nature and functionnal
programming, meaning that when you initiate a transaction on the cardano blockchain, you know ahead of time what fees you
will be subjected to what is gonna happen and basically the nature of the transaction process. And cardashift explain that
when dealing whith impact investment on large scales it's vital to know these things. The projects featured on the launchpad
will be selected, based on three based criterias.

1 -  The project featured should have a tangible and positive impact
2 - be at an early stage
3 - should have a demonstrable high business potential
4 - the project featured on our platform will initially be funded through an IDO model initial Dex offering.
Later on other options for funding will be available such as liquidity pooling, staking airdrops etc.

The selection of projects will be done through a vote by staking method, the initial projects will be pre selected
at least as far as I've understood it.starting off however only IDO funding would be available investors will use their clap tokens
which is the name of the cardashift tokens to invest on the projects of their liking. In the future investors would be able to use
other cryptocurrencies as well to invest in the projects on the launchpad. Those projects would be subjected to a 4% fee, that 
will be used by back clap tokens, increasing the demand for the token. In the initial stages however, investors will use their 
clap tokens to invest in the project they select and receive a corresponding project token. These project token will hopefully
appreciate in value if the project is successful. Later on the project investors will be able to buy back clap tokens but subjected 
to a 4 % fee. The fully diluted market cap of the clap token is one billion in the first public sale 160 million tokens will be sold
where you will receive 30 clap tokens for each one ADA Cardano that is. Also there is a lockup period for the investors of the 
private sell that's already been held. as well as the team behing it. 

Another IDO platform is Parasol finance
it has the ambition to become the first community governed Ido platform. Ido in this context stands for initial dex offerings, so
basically a laucnhing platform for various crypto projects. It's a platform for launching new coins, tokens, crypto projects, raising liquidity
for all kinds of crypto crowdfunding in a decentralised manner. Parasol token gives the right to the holder to vote on which project
should be initiated and which shouldn't be. It also intends to limit the investment cap, ensuring that whales don't hijack the initial
offerings of the coins or projects and dumping them straight afterwards.

bear market en cours (période) peut être. ça ne change rien. 

